Welcome to the documentation of this game!
This is the code for a competition game, where players create code which controls agents in a simulated environment, with the goal of surviving for a set amount of time.
Before explaining how to use the program, I'll explain the detail behind the game mechanics.
1. The world is finite yet toroidal, by which I mean that there is no "world border". If you go too far to the right, you'll wrap around the world and appear on the other side.
2. The world is a grid. Each grid point can be one of four different "biomes": Desert(ID:1), Grass(ID:2), Jungle(ID:3) and Mountain(ID:4). There's also the occasional Oasis(ID:0). Biomes also have a constant "drain value" (Oasis: 0.4, Desert: 0.6, Grass: 0.5, Jungle: 0.6, Mountain: 0.6) and a "radius value" (Oasis: 3, Desert: 3, Grass: 4, Jungle: 3, Mountain: 2).
3. Players move by submitting a vector coordinate every game tick. It is clipped with the biome radius value of the grid point the player is on, and gets added to their current coordinate.
4. Players have a value called their "energy". Various actions can change this value(Decrease: Moving around(length of vector coordinate, raised to the power of twice the drain value), Chasing(Same as moving, will be explained later), Splitting(halves your energy). Increase: Consumption of foliage and players(If successful, 90% of the "prey"'s energy.)). If the energy becomes equal to or under zero, the player is considered dead and is eliminated from the game.
5. Players consist of a "strategy file", which contains a function called "strategy". The strategy function takes (in order) the ID of the tile the player is on, the relative x coordinate of nearby objects, the relative y coordinate of the objects, the "type" of the objects(The ID of NPOs(Non-player objects), -1 for players, -2 for allies), the energy values of the objects, the player's energy and the player's memory as input. Then it must output (in order) the movement vector(a numpy array containing 2 integers), whether to split(a single boolean value), the chase target(the index of the object you want to chase, -1 if you don't intend to chase anything), the player's memory, the split copy's memory(Output this even if you don't intend to split.) and a "server ping".(For normal players, you use this to set the player's color. It should look ilke this: [[R,G,B]] It can do more things, but you need special permissions for that, which only the NPOs have.)
